From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hansel
minutes. Oh, weekly discussion with
web developer and technologist Scott
Hanselman. This is Lawrence Ryan announcing
show number three 58. Recorded
live Thursday, February 7th, 2013. Support for
Hanselman it's provided by Tellerik
offering the best in developer
tools and support online@telprikdotcomandbyfranklins.net training
developers to work smarter and
now offering gesture pack a
powerful gesture, recording and recognition
system for Microsoft connect for
windows developers details. Add gesture,
ptak.com. In this episode, Scott
talks to three 43 studios
engineer, Katie McAffrey about how
they use the cloud to
run services for halo for
hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes and it's halo
week that just made that
up, but it would be
cool if it was halo
week, but I do have
on the phone, Katy McCaffrey
from Microsoft, who also works
for the internal studio three
43 industries. How are you,
Katie? I'm good. How are
you? I'm very cool. Very
cool. I met you at
the, at the nerd dinner
that we had a couple
of weeks ago at the
mall, which is very exciting.
Yeah, that was cool. And
in Europe there with my
buddy hoop and you guys
work on the backend of
halo, is that right? Yep.
Yup. We work on all
the services, the power, all
the experiences and the halo
game. Okay. So I'm looking
at, I've got halo reach,
I've got halo three halo,
four, I've got a halo,
a anniversary edition. I just
got all of those have
backend services. Yeah. They all
have backend services. And in
addition, we use halo, we
power halo way point and
all the mobile experiences, the
Xbox client, things like that.
Okay. So, I mean, I'm,
I'm kind of ignorant to
this. I know that when
I do multiplayer, it's keeping
track of my profile and
my really, really low rank
and my horrible, horrible scores.
And I assume that it's
also sending real time information
about where I am and
what direction I'm looking and
stuff like that. But what
are the services that halo
needs to, to operate? Sure.
So we have a bunch
of different services that we're
currently, that are evolving over
time. We have the staff
service, which records all of
your staff status, like your
headshots, your kills, you know,
like who killed who with
what weapon that all gets
sent up to us. And
we keep track of that
and make it available on
our way point clients. And
also some of that data
is available in game. We
have a presence service. So
when you were playing halo
online, you are telling us
periodically what you're doing. And
we make this information available
on some of our, we
went clients, but mostly in
game, you see this in
the, in the active roster
on halo. This is actually
a different service than most
X-Box live titles use. It's
a little more robust. We
update more frequently and send
more data. We also have
a title file service. So
this is where you get
all your hopper files. So
your different playlists, which tells
you what maps and modes
you can play in halo
four. This is how we
deliver like some of the
Spartan ops playlists Slow, slow
down. Cause you're, you're, you're
you work in halo all
the time. And I play
it like twice a year.
So title files, that's like
when I go in and
I say, I want to
play a death match, or
I want to play whatever
with the skulls and those
graphics that come down. Yeah.
So it's, it's basically just
a list of different maps
and modes that you can
play and match-make into. So
we update those weekly right
now. And so like, we
didn't originally launch with SWAT,
I believe, which is just
a game type in the
halo universe. And so a
couple of weeks later, we
then made a SWAT playlist
cause people wanted to play
SWAT as well. So it's
just it's. And, and so
when we release new map
packs, we'll also release new
playlists because that will make
the, the new maps that
just came out available for
people who want to play
on them. And these things
like stats and presence, there's,
there's, there's like the real
time multiplayer aspect of services,
but then stats, like how
many times you shot someone
with a shotgun, are those
things being calculated on the
server, on the client? So
some of it's, it's a,
it's a mix we get,
we get some aggregates on
from the client for what
you did in the game,
but your lifetime of like
kills and deaths and all
of that as being aggregated
on the server, it's also
kind of interesting to point
out that our stat service
is not real time. So
you play a game and
then we get your stats
and we may be able
to process it right away.
But we also have the
ability to wait if we're
having a lot of load
presence on the other hand
is completely real time. So
everything you're seeing there is,
is up to date and
happening right now. That's really
interesting. Cause I was, I
was talking to the stack
overflow guys before and you
know how stack overflow has
achievements. Some of the achievements
are super complicated, you know,
it's just like, I don't
know if you know, God
down voted on a Tuesday
by a guy from Russia.
And it's like, Whoa, how
did they do that? You
know? And they said that
they've got these triggers where
of, you know, something gets
set up and then they'll
fire off a trigger and
that's kind of realtime, but
then they've got batches that'll
run. Some might be every
hour and some might be
once a week, depending on
the complexity of the calculation
of the achievement is as
your assistant system similar It's,
it's, it's not like we're
running batch jobs on SQL
is sort of the analogy
you're making there. It's we
use the way we do
in step service is we
use service, Azure service bus
queues that we get them
from the game, we get
your data and then we
send back. As soon as
we've stored it durably, we
send back a, okay, we
got your data game tour
or response to the game.
And then the players can
keep playing without having to
wait for us to do
a more complex operation. Once
we do start processing your
stats though, we process and
update everything at once. So
it's, it's just a transaction.
Okay. So you're using, so
the interesting part there is
you're using Azure and you're
using Azure service, but so
you're kind of using it
in a, in a queuing
sense. You throw it into
the queue fire and forget.
So it doesn't slow down
the game. Exactly. And then
the server gets around to
it and if the queue
gets full, then you know,
you'll, you'll get to it
when you get to it.
Exactly. Exactly. Okay. That's cool.
So stats, presence, title files.
Yeah. We have a couple
more. We have a user
generated content service. This is
whenever you take a screenshot
or you make a map
in the world editor called
forge, you can upload these
things to our service and
then they're available via Waypoint
or other players can download
them as well. So we
have a service for that.
And then we also have
a cheat and banning service,
which if you are doing
bad things in the game
from, you know, quitting or
griefing other players or being
obnoxious on your microphone, we
detect all of these things.
And then we can actually
automatically ban you in real
time. We'll send my real
time and, and keep the,
the sort of the integrity
of the halo matchmaking experience.
Good for most players. Wow.
You can really tell if
I'm being mean. Yeah. So
we, we do, we look
at a whole bunch of
different things. Like, you know,
our players muting, you are
a lot of people disconnecting
from games. When you're the
host a lot, we have
a lot of different metrics
that we use to run
and determine what we should
ban people. And we have
a bunch of flexibility in
our system from we can
venue for a day. If
we think like, maybe you
don't really aren't being really
mean, or like doing it
inadvertently, or if you keep
doing it, we can ban
you for longer. And this
was a system that was
also in halo reach and
I believe three as well.
Wow. Okay. So you're not
like listening to my conversation
and like, Oh, he said
a naughty word. You're looking
at how people react to
me. Yep. Yeah. We're using
a lot of the user
generated data that's sent up
to us. That's cool. That
sounds like a lot of
compute work. Yeah. So
is really interesting. It's kind
of, it's one of the,
the services that I wrote
and I really enjoyed cause
we, it used to be
done on a, on a
nightly batch basis, sort of
like the stack overflow achievements.
We went and used a
complex event processing system to
do that. So we can
do it in more real
time. And so things are
happening. You get the F
generally when the system's up
and running, you'll get the
feedback and get banned, you
know, within 10 to 15
minutes of us detecting that
you've done. So a number
of undesirable things, whereas in
previous games you would get
banned, you know, the next
day. Wow. Okay. And then
you wrote That. So I
show up and I let's
say that I, I joined
games and I started being
a jerk and then people
started leaving and I'm the
only guy left. And this
happens a couple times. This
is, these are basically stats.
These are events that are
throwing into a big pile,
but they're not correlated events.
They're just that gosh, when
Scott shows up, people run
away and they're sitting in
a queue somewhere. Yeah. So
without getting too much into
the depth of the system,
it's, it's basically like an
event driven architecture where we
look at all the events
that are coming up from
the players over a period
of time. And then, then
we're processing and aggregating a
bunch of different events based
on rules that we've decided
that these, that our community
management team of society, this
is if these things are
happening, this player is probably
not playing the way is
not, is not being a
good halo player right there.
They're probably doing something wrong.
Sure. I don't, I'm not,
I'm less interested in the,
in the, like the details.
Like I don't want to
give the griefers like data,
but, but I'm interested in
like, so you wrote the,
in this runs in Azure
and you wrote this in
C sharp. Yep. It runs
in Azure. We use a
combination of this couple's with
our stat service that gets
all the events from the
game. And we also used
stream insight in Azure. When
you, when you write something
like this, that is big,
big scale, giant scale, how
do you keep w when
you're working this, how do
you keep from asking for
too much data? Like you're
asking questions of a backend
system that could explode, you
know, it could get like
combinant torics or order, you
know, and plus one type
questions where it's like, Oh
man, I didn't realize that
I just brought the entire
system to its knees because
I asked a question that
I thought was reasonable, but
it turned out to be
a terabyte of data. So
the, so there's two, actually
we have a, we have
a BI system as well
that I mentioned that's running
Hadoop. And then also in
Azure. And that's interesting because
that's sort of, we have
our data in a different
store. So that's sort of
how we prevent, like taking
down the staff service when
we're running a really long
pulling, a long query that
pulls a lot of data
for cheating and Bannon. The
interesting thing with complex event
processing is it's more it's
the model is sort of
like a normal thing is
you have all the data
and then you run queries
over it with complex event
processing, you define the query
and then you run a
bunch of data through the
query. And so, and the
temp, the data needs to
be temporal in nature, but
you're not going to have
this problem where you're trying
to pull a bunch of
data and then like, you
know, hitting your servers really
hard. We're just consuming a
feed of data from the
game and then, you know,
creating higher level events on
top of it and then
acting on them. I see.
So it's like a seed
that you're pouring this kind
of fire hose of data
through. And you're, you're kind
of seeing if the cheaters
fall out of that, as
opposed to throwing a bunch
of data in a pile
and then shoving your hands
through it and looking for
this, this cheater in the
haystack. Yes. Yeah. So it's,
it's sort of a different
way of processing large amounts
of data. No, that's cool.
Okay. So stats, presence, title
files, urinary content, cheating and
banning. That sounds super interesting.
When, when I log in,
I'm talking to Xbox live,
that's not part of halo.
Exactly. So Xbox live provides
a set of standard services,
like the allows the game
to find our servers as
well. And talk to our,
our services. It also provides
things like when they're a
matchmaking that is running is
actually running through Xbox live
achievements, run through Xbox live,
things like that. And do
you, how do you deploy
this stuff? Like, do you
have like staging where like
people who are working on
this are playing, you know,
either a version of halo
or they've pointed, they've pointed
that version of halo at
the staging server, and then
you can simulate a bunch
of bad guys being bad
without being on the live
network. And then you roll
it over into production later.
Yeah. So we use the
Azure portal to do a
lot of our deployments and
we also use this cool
tool called Sarah Brata. They
have this thing called the
cloud storage studio and Azure
management studio. That'll it looks
like the portal, but it
has a lot of nice
UI features on top of
it that makes deploying builds,
editing, config, doing a VIP
swap type of thing in
Azure. Really simple right now.
Yeah. We deployed a staging
and then do a VIP
swap to change out our
builds in production. Oh. So
in Azure, you, for every
sort of subscription ID, you
have the production deployment, which
is what is hit available
via your, your nice friendly
DNS name. And then you
have a staging deployment, which
is only accessible via a
goo ID. And like isn't
what the Azure load balancer
sending work to. And so
what we do is we
spin up actually two full
deployments at once in staging.
And then a BIP swap
is when you tell Azure
to change, what's in staging
with what's in production. So
it just does an atomic
swap Is VIP is VIP
like VIP, like virtual IP.
Yeah. Okay. So you, you
don't really like when I'm,
when I'm used to doing
staging to production roles in
the, in the pre-cloud days,
there were a bunch of
machines that I could point
at and say, look, those
are staging. And then these
are over here, our production,
and they were very different
and we wouldn't typically swap.
It would usually be a
roll forward thing. And you
don't usually get into swapping
comfortably between two systems and
calling them both production until
you're a very mature organization.
But it sounds like with
the cloud, you don't, you
don't really care, right. I
mean, they literally production and
staging can be the same
thing cause you are going
to just swap back and
forth. Exactly. It's, it's, it's
a very different deployment model
and it's, it's also very
interesting when you think about
designing your services on top
of this, because you have
to basically be super fault
tolerant because we're taking down
the production service and there
may be data in it.
And we want that data
to replay, right. We don't
want to lose any data,
but at the same time,
we don't want to have
to like expert. We don't
expertly like time when we
do our, our deployments, we
can do them at any
time and it just sort
of works. And so there's
a lot of things from,
you know, like item potency
to being super fault tolerant
that are, are helpful in
doing that When, when we
would have people on like
a shopping cart and in
the apps that I worked
on, we would start to
kind of slowly drain them
off. So we would slowly
bring one production site down
and slowly bring the other
one back up. Is that,
is that similar kind of
thing or do you, are
you literally swapping the entire
thing out from underneath them
and they, and the cues
keep it from feeling like
something's happened? Yeah, Exactly. We
just, we just swap them
in and out. We don't
really do any drain off
right now. And then w
will you do that like
on a random Tuesday afternoon?
Or do you wait until
like the middle of the
night? Because someone's always playing
halo somewhere. Exactly. Yeah. So
we do deployments. We try
to do like really impactful
ones at night, just not,
we don't. So we don't
get up at like 2:00 AM
and do deployments. We do
them generally during the day
when we're here and then
launch week was its own
thing, special thing, because I
guess it's notable in game
services, you have this very
different load pattern where on,
you know, launch night or
launch week in the first
couple of weeks, you see
your highest number of concurrent
users and then it sort
of tapers off and, and,
and becomes more stable. Whereas
most services you sort of
have like this gradual ramp
up to your peak number
of users. So to sort
of help with this on
launch week, we had at
least five people in the
office around the clock. We
were working like eight to
nine hour shifts and then,
you know, addressing issues and
monitoring when they came up.
And so that week we
were just like fixing things
and switching and things like,
you know, at least once
or twice a day, Does
it feel like helpless in
that you're using this cloud
service that you didn't make,
like you made what sits
on top of it, but
you didn't make Azure. So
like, from, from the perspective
of, of you guys, the
halo team that, you know,
there's this company out there
called Azure. I mean, we
happen to be Microsoft, but
you know, it's still, it's
the thing. You didn't make
sure you can't control it.
I always thought about that.
Like Netflix uses Amazon and
like, if Amazon's down or
something happens, the Netflix guys
are like, what do they
do? Just call a one
800 number or what do
you, how do you freak
out when you can't like
go and reboot the server
yourself? So there's right. So
there is the Azure support
team as well. And then
because of our scale and
size, we had, you know,
some help from the Azure
team and people that we
could call directly if that
happened. I mean, but in
any system there's sort of
like, right, you don't really
even own your machines, they're
in a data center somewhere
and you have people who
could go and like, you
know, kick out a power
cord or, and, and like,
obviously this doesn't happen all
the time, but there, there
are issues there as well.
Whereas like a drive will
just fail and like, I
can't control that either. So
as it's just a different
set of problems and, and
it helps that we basically
rebuilt the service stack from
the ground up, be on
top of Azure. So we
sort of address those issues
like, right. We know from
the beginning that they're going
to pull, they can pull
any VM out from undressed
and restarted. So we went
and built the system with
that in mind. That's really
interesting. So there are people
who might move an existing
system over, and I think
there's a lot of discussion
around migration and moving this
website or that website, but,
and then there's also concerns
about vendor portability. People are
out there, there are those
who are always paranoid about
that. So then they'll build
their system based entirely on
VMs. But I'm hearing you
say that you looked at
the things that Azure offers
like compute and storage and
service bus, particularly service bus,
and built it to sit
on Azure and to use
the Azure stuff. And it
doesn't, it doesn't have an
identity that is not attached
to cloud services. Exactly. Right.
So the, this is the
first, I guess it's interesting
to point out. This is
the first game that is
built entirely or halo game.
And isn't built entirely on
top of Azure, our backends
before used to be in
physical data centers. And so
we took a that our
team took on the challenge
of rebuilding importing it to
Azure, because for a number
of reasons with the load
pattern, it makes a lot
of sense because you can
start turning things off as
you don't need them. You
don't have to buy all
this really expensive hardware that
then goes out of warranty.
Right. We get the nice
elastic scale. And so that
was really worthwhile to us
as a service. And we
wanted to do that. And
it makes a lot of
sense for, you know, future
experiences and, and maintainability of
the service. And so we,
we did, we just rebuilt
everything on top of Azure
and we rearchitected and looked
at every service, even though
a lot of them are
the same as we have
the same names and have
the same functionality of what
was in previous halo games.
But we, we went and
built it for Azure specifically.
Did w were there discussions
where you had to say,
well, do we know if,
if Azure is big enough
for halo? Like, are you,
I don't know if you're
the biggest client, but I'm
just saying like, there must
have been a, whenever you're
evaluating a cloud service, you're
like, is this going to
be big enough? Because we
don't know how popular halo
four could have been. It
could have been bigger than
Azure maybe. Right. So we
definitely had a lot of
conversations and worked with the
Azure team to make sure
I'm right. That we could
get the number of cores
that we needed, that they
were scaling out. And so
that was great. Great. I
mean, I think in, we
talked with Clemens from service
bus and, you know, during
one of our perf tests,
we actually took production service,
bus queues down. And so,
but they worked with us
to make sure to fix
the problem and make sure
that they were ready for
a launch. That's pretty cool.
I had this conversation with
a guy from Netflix. He
was explaining how they were
his cloud service provider was
going from spinning rust, hard
drives over to SSDs. And
this guy in the audience
calls out well, you know,
SSDs fail. And what about,
what about this and that?
And performance and trim and
better dah, dah, dah. And
the guy from Netflix was
like, well, that's not my
problem. Like I'm renting them.
Exactly. And I was like,
wow. It just totally blew
my mind. Like, Oh my
goodness, he's so enlightened. I'm
renting them like, yeah, drives,
fail. But it's not my
problem. Like for, for someone
like Netflix, where popular movie
comes out or something like
halo, halo four comes out,
I'm going to rent a
bunch of hard drives. And
when I'm done and the
game becomes less popular and
halo four plus one comes
out, you know, then I'll
just rent some more. So
like all those machines you
had in data centers, like
before you don't need those
data centers. Exactly. Well, so
we still do support, like
all of the old games
we haven't migrated to Azure,
so we still own some
physical machines and some data
centers, but it's really nice
for entertainment when you sort
of look at the way
that those, the, the users
sort of like flock to
one hot thing of the
moment and then it drops
off, but you can still
support the long tail of
the, the entertainment experience in
the product, because you don't
have to maintain all these
really expensive machines. You just
keep up the number of
cores you need running. And
it is really nice. I
kind of really enjoy, like,
not getting woken up in
the middle of the night
because you know, the SQL
drive failed. Right. Azure just
deals with it and spins
up a new instance of,
of a node that went
down for me. And I
don't even get notified. Yeah.
Yeah, exactly. And also, I
think as a user of
games, I always hate when
a game that I'm, I
really dig, I get a
notification that like, Oh yeah,
the backend service for this
game is going away now
because we can't afford it.
You know, it's like, if,
if you're on like halo
15 and I'm still playing
halo for, yeah. You could
go and run it on
a machine and it's going
to cost you guys five
bucks a month and it
doesn't really matter. Right. You
could keep it running forever
as far as you're concerned.
Exactly. So, and that's one
of the other nice things
about this, right. Is like
we want our users to
have a really great experience
and we want them to
play what they love. And
so this makes it really
easy to do that. And
it makes it really easy
to keep around all this
data and whatnot. Like I
don't care. It's just out
there and it's durable. And
Azure takes care of a
lot of the operating systems
and the software upgrades for
me, There is one framework
that you're using that I
have had not been familiar
with. That's called Orleans, like
new Orleans, what is Orleans?
So Orleans is a Microsoft
research pro project. And it's
basically a framework for building
large, reliable, distributed systems. And
it's based on the actor
model. And so we partnered
with them really early on
and thought this was a
really cool thing and would
help us build and write
the code much easier. And
so we've been working tightly
with that group as well.
And I'm looking at this
here, they have this thing
called grains. What is a
grain? A grain is sort
of a logical unit use
to process data and all
of the, anything that goes
any of the calls that
are in a grain runs
single threaded plea. So everything
is asynchronous and nonblocking, but
it, it, it abstracts away
the idea of me having
to worry about threading within
a single grain. So I
can write code synchronously basically
in a grain. So writing
code that is synchronously of
course, is easier. Cause you
want to write code that
focuses on business, right. And
if you're writing code and
you're sitting on a thread
and you need data and
from all sorts of different
locations, you can get your
business code kind of tangled
up with the business of
threading. Yeah. So this simplifies
a lot of the threading
problems. It also is nice
because it scales out and
does a lot of the
addressing address addressing for us.
So when I say, you
know, like go post stats
too, for Scott, it just
goes, I like do the
lookup to find where and
Orleans does look up for
me, like where to go
send this, what machine to
go send this message to,
Wow. I'm looking up here
and there's no downloads. There's
nothing it's from the extreme
computing group, which is an
awesome name if you're going
to work for a group.
Yeah. So unfortunately this isn't
available publicly on Microsoft or
for people outside of Microsoft
to use, but I'm working
with them as like, we
worked very closely with that
team and they're really awesome.
And it's been, I thought
it was a great experience
working with it and made
our lives a lot easier
built on building on top
of their framework. Hopefully that'll
be, that'll come out or
I'll hear more about that.
That sounds actually pretty sweet.
Yeah. It's very cool. Yeah.
That's cool. And, and service
bus, I wrote a couple
of basic service relays and
some different stuff, but I
haven't dug too much into
service. And I do know
that, like you said, Clemons
of asters from that team
is always telling me to
get on service bus. And
there's actually a video where
you're up there with hoop
and one of your teammates,
Angus talking about service special
on channel nine. And I'll
put a link to that
in the, in the show
notes, how has service bus
different from just using like
MSMQ? So I'm not super
familiar with, MSMQ like looking
into that, but we chose
to use that because a,
it gives us the ability
to scale out really easily
because we wanted to be
the main goal. There is
we want it to be
able to have the server
go down just in case
it did for whatever reason
for, I think, three, two
to three days, and we
don't lose any data. So
we use service best to
build in the reliability of
the stat system and the
scale, because when, on lunch
night, you know, we get
a ton of users coming
in plane, and perhaps we
had issues with stats or
right. We just like couldn't
process as many games as
quickly as they were coming
in service bus gave us
the ability to sort of
queue that data, store it
durably, and then process it
as we had time. So
we didn't just slam our
server And service bus is,
is a, is a service
on Azure. That is that
you're abstracting away. What's underneath
it. Like you don't have
to think about if there's
VMs underneath the service bus,
right. If you want more
service pluses, you just dial
it up. Right. So you
just basically say, I want
this many cues and that
gives you a set amount
of data that you can
use. And, and then you
throw things into the queue
and then you can pull
them out. And once they're
in, they're stored durably, right.
And so you don't have
to worry about anything going
down or getting lost, and
it's pretty simple, right. You
just push things on and
pull them off and, and
it's there for you. So
it's a really nice solution
for building out the scale
out And does this thing
automatically scale, like you're looking
at your, your database, you're
looking at your message center.
You're looking at the receiver
of the messages. These things
are kind of ebbing and
flowing as, as traffic comes
and goes, Right? So it's
not elastic in the sense
that like, right. They don't
automatically spin up queues as
the traffic like wanes and
fluxes. Right. We just, we
have a set number that
we use and it's, it's
also the same way for
all of our, for all
of our compute and storage
instances. Those are, we basically
planned for amount of load.
And then as we go
through, when we do deployments,
we'll actually take down the
number of cores we're using
and make that decision. We
don't have anything built in
right now to do that
elastically and just determine that
for us. And do you
use cues, service, bus cues,
and a service bus is
a relay. What do you
mean by that? There's there's
service bus relay service and
then service queue. I believe
we just use service bus
cues right now. Okay, cool.
And what do you do
for, for logging? Like if
you have to go in
and debug all of this
what's what's your life? I
hope you don't have like
text files. No, no, no.
So we have a, an,
an ETW event tracing for
windows logging system in place.
Yep. So it's, it's basically
the, it's a new product
of.net four or five. It's
sort of a model for
sending events and, and, and
tracking stuff like that. And
it, because right now, when
you go to Azure, you
can write to the wad
logs, which is the diagnostic
table, but the number of
logs that we actually wanted
to write didn't scale, right?
So ETW was this framework
that we basically built on
top of that allows us
to, you know, should have
shipped the logs out and
not have to store as
much. You don't store all
the strings, right. You sort
of store the format once
and then apply when you're
looking at the logs that
applies it for you. You
just store all the parameters
that are all the variables
that you're popping in and
out. And so, and then
we also use MDs, which
is an internal Microsoft tool
right now to view the
logs and whatnot, ETW for
folks who are wondering means
event tracing for windows. And
it's a, it's a kernel
mode logging feature like you,
like you said, but this
is something that was added
in, in windows server, 2008.
And it's, it's basically integrated
into the kernels such that
you could turn it on
and off as you're going.
And it's very, very low
overhead. Yeah. Yeah. It's pretty
nice because if you have
a user mode application, but
you want to get some
really low level debugging things
like even device drivers, you
can go all the way
down to the bottom. If
you want to. It's it
started actually in windows server
two windows, windows 2000, but
it got really, really interesting
in 2008 server when I
S and, and different websites.
So I started using it.
Interesting. Okay. And so then
you view that in a
large firm, a larger application,
a larger viewer, a log
viewer, Right. That sort of
aggregates all the logs from
all our different machines and,
and our services. So we
can run queries on top
of them and look at
what we think is interesting.
So I heard that you
said that you used a
management, the management portal, as
well as a third party
management portal, but do you
ever do any scripting? Like
I kind of imagined a
large system, like this would
include PowerShell scripts to fire
up and turn down things.
So we have some tools
right now. It's one of
the things that we're working
on currently is building out
stuff. So a lot of
the things that we do
manually through the portal and
whatnot are, are done via
just, you know, one click
deployment type is the scenario
that we want to get
to. We're just not there
yet. Cause we just didn't
have time. And when you,
like, when I log into
Azure, I have like a
live ID and a credit
card. Is there like some,
this is just a totally
random question. Cause I got
to ask a random at
the end, is there like
some dudes credit card being
charged? I'm actually not sure
how our billing is set
up. I know one of
the funny things is we
all used to be on
like one developer account and
Azure. And because we were
new to Azure, everyone, like
wasn't shutting down their cores
and their deployments every night
because you just don't think
about that coming from a
traditional service background. And so
they gave every developer, we
now have our own accounts
so that they can see
who's like, you know, costing
them a lot of money.
Oh, that's awesome. Okay. Cause
that's, that is the fear.
I mean, that's funny when
you, once you have a
whole lot of stuff running
on Azure, you do have
to think about like, you
know, does this need to
be running and does this
need, and it's kind of
cool. It's almost like running
your website and Azure is
almost like the way that
you drive a Prius. If
you've ever got a P
of a Prius or anything
like that, you're driven a
hybrid car. There's a gamification
when you get a hybrid
car and it's like, okay,
I can do 44 miles
per gallon. Right. I'm going
to save like 5 cents and
it changes the way you
drive and cloud services changed
the way you write code
in that you want to
squeeze that last penny. Right?
So it's just like an
interesting note. Like obviously the
big, I would never say,
just take code out of
a server and like port
it into Azure. You're probably,
you could do it and
it will probably work, but
it's not going to be
super cost effective or efficient.
I think like really thinking
about how you design your
service for Azure so that
a you're getting the most
out of the pricing model
and you know, you're building
it for this sort of,
it's kind of a chaotic
environment where you, you, you
assume things fail is super
helpful and make your services
more reliable and it'll make
them scale out better in
the, as you move forward
and get more users as
well. That's very cool. Well,
thanks so much for chatting
with me today, Katie. No
problem. Cool. Next next couple
of weeks, we're actually going
To have the way point
the client site, people who
consume and use your services.
And we're going to talk
to those folks too. So
we're going to see how
halo works on the back
end, the front end. Cool.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and we'll
see you again next week.